GITHUB_PAGES_SETUP.md, before:

# GitHub Pages Setup Guide

**Zero downloads. Zero accounts (beyond GitHub). Completely free.**

This is the simplified deployment using GitHub Actions + GitHub Pages. No backend server, no database, no local setup required!

---

## How It Works

```
GitHub Actions              Static JSON File           GitHub Pages
(Runs Daily at 2 AM)  →    (public/data/banks.json)  →  (Your Site)
     ↓                             ↓                         ↓
Fetches SEC data          Commits to repo           Serves to users
Calculates metrics        Auto-deploys              Real-time screener
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Completely free (GitHub Actions + Pages)
- ✅ No apps to download
- ✅ No accounts to create (you already have GitHub)
- ✅ Automated daily updates at 2 AM UTC
- ✅ No server maintenance
- ✅ Instant deployment on push

---

## Quick Setup (5 Minutes)

### Step 1: Enable GitHub Pages (1 minute)

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** → **Pages** (left sidebar)
3. Under "Build and deployment":
   - **Source:** GitHub Actions
   - (That's it! No branch selection needed)

### Step 2: Set Repository Secrets (2 minutes)

GitHub Actions needs API credentials for SEC and stock price data:

#### Secret 1: SEC User-Agent

1. Go to **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions**
2. Click **New repository secret**
3. Name: `EDGAR_USER_AGENT`
4. Value: `YourCompany contact@youremail.com` (use real info!)
5. Click **Add secret**

**Example:**
```
Acme Investments info@acme.com
```

#### Secret 2: Alpha Vantage API Key (for stock prices)

1. Get a free API key from [Alpha Vantage](https://www.alphavantage.co/support/#api-key)
2. Click **New repository secret**
3. Name: `ALPHA_VANTAGE_API_KEY`
4. Value: Your API key (e.g., `ABC123XYZ`)
5. Click **Add secret**

**Note:** The free tier allows 25 API requests/day (sufficient for ~25 banks). For commercial use or more banks, you'll need a [paid plan](https://www.alphavantage.co/premium/) ($49.99+/month). Alpha Vantage is a NASDAQ-licensed data provider, making it suitable for commercial applications.

### Step 3: Trigger Initial Data Load (1 minute)

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click **Update Bank Data from SEC EDGAR** workflow
3. Click **Run workflow** → **Run workflow** button
4. Wait 5-10 minutes for completion
5. Check the **Summary** to see banks processed

### Step 4: Deploy to GitHub Pages (2 minutes)

1. In your repo root, create `.github/workflows/deploy.yml`:

```yaml
name: Deploy to GitHub Pages

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  workflow_dispatch:

permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: 'npm'
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm run build
      - uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3
        with:
          path: ./dist

  deploy:
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: github-pages
      url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
    steps:
      - uses: actions/deploy-pages@v4
        id: deployment
```

2. Commit and push:
```bash
git add .github/workflows/deploy.yml
git commit -m "Add GitHub Pages deployment"
git push
```

3. Site deploys automatically! Visit:
   ```
   https://[your-username].github.io/Bank-Analyzer/
   ```

---

## That's It! 🎉

Your bank screener is now live with automated daily SEC data updates.

---

## What Happens Automatically

### Daily at 2 AM UTC:
1. GitHub Actions runs `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs`
2. Fetches latest SEC EDGAR data for all banks
3. Calculates Graham Number, ROE, ROTA, etc.
4. Saves to `public/data/banks.json`
5. Commits changes to repo
6. GitHub Pages auto-deploys updated site

### On Every Push to Main:
1. Builds your frontend
2. Deploys to GitHub Pages
3. Live within 1-2 minutes

---

## Managing Your Bank List

Edit the tickers in `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs`:

```javascript
bankTickers: [
  'JPM', 'BAC', 'WFC',  // Add your tickers here
]
```

Push changes and next workflow run will update data.

---

## Manual Data Refresh

Anytime you want to refresh data manually:

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click **Update Bank Data from SEC EDGAR**
3. Click **Run workflow**
4. Wait 5-10 minutes

---

## Monitoring

### Check Workflow Status:
- Go to **Actions** tab
- See latest runs and their status
- Click any run to see detailed logs

### View Current Data:
- Check `public/data/banks.json` in your repo
- See commit history for update times
- Each commit shows date/time of update

---

## Customization

### Change Update Schedule

Edit `.github/workflows/fetch-data.yml`:

```yaml
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 2 * * *'  # Daily at 2 AM UTC
    # Change to:
    # - cron: '0 */6 * * *'  # Every 6 hours
    # - cron: '0 0 * * 1'    # Weekly on Mondays
```

### Add More Metrics

Edit `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs` in the `calculateMetrics` function to add custom calculations.

### Change Data Source

The script fetches from:
- **SEC EDGAR API** - Financial metrics (free, no API key required)
- **Alpha Vantage** - Stock prices (requires free API key, NASDAQ-licensed)

**Important:** Alpha Vantage is a NASDAQ-licensed data provider, making it suitable for commercial use. The free tier is for testing/personal use. For commercial applications, obtain a [commercial license](https://www.alphavantage.co/premium/).

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Workflow failed with 403 error"

**Problem:** SEC rejected request due to missing/invalid User-Agent

**Solution:**
1. Go to **Settings** → **Secrets** → **Actions**
2. Check `EDGAR_USER_AGENT` secret
3. Must be: `"CompanyName email@example.com"`
4. Update and rerun workflow

### "Stock prices showing null"

**Problem:** Alpha Vantage API key missing or rate limit exceeded

**Solution:**
1. Ensure `ALPHA_VANTAGE_API_KEY` secret is set in repository settings
2. Free tier limit: 25 requests/day, 5 requests/minute
3. If you have more than 25 banks, consider a [paid plan](https://www.alphavantage.co/premium/)
4. Wait 24 hours if daily limit reached, or upgrade to higher tier

### "No data appearing on site"

**Problem:** Data file not yet generated

**Solution:**
1. Check **Actions** tab for failed runs
2. Manually trigger workflow
3. Wait for completion (5-10 minutes)
4. Refresh your GitHub Pages site

### "Some banks showing null values"

**Problem:** Bank doesn't have recent SEC filings or uses different XBRL tags

**Solution:** This is normal. Not all banks report consistently. The workflow continues with banks that have data.

### "GitHub Pages site not updating"

**Problem:** Deployment workflow not running

**Solution:**
1. Check **Actions** tab for deploy workflow
2. Ensure `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` exists
3. Push a commit to trigger rebuild

---

## Cost Breakdown

| Service | Cost |
|---------|------|
| GitHub Actions | **Free** (2,000 minutes/month) |
| GitHub Pages | **Free** (100 GB bandwidth/month) |
| SEC EDGAR API | **Free** (no limits) |
| Alpha Vantage | **Free tier** (25 req/day) or **$49.99+/mo** for commercial |
| **Total** | **$0/month** (testing) or **$49.99+/mo** (commercial) |

**Usage:**
- Data refresh: ~15 minutes/day = 450 min/month (well under limit)
- Pages bandwidth: Typical usage < 1 GB/month
- Alpha Vantage: 25 banks/day on free tier (sufficient for included bank list)

**Note for Commercial Use:** Alpha Vantage is NASDAQ-licensed, making it appropriate for commercial applications. Contact Alpha Vantage for commercial licensing.

---

## Advanced: Adding Historical Data

The current setup stores only the latest data. To track history:

1. **Option A:** Commit data file daily (repo grows over time)
2. **Option B:** Add JSON file per date in `public/data/history/`
3. **Option C:** Use GitHub Gists for historical snapshots

See `backend/` folder if you need full database with historical tracking.

---

## Comparison: GitHub Actions vs Full Backend

| Feature | GitHub Actions (This Setup) | Full Backend |
|---------|---------------------------|--------------|
| **Setup Time** | 5 minutes | 1-2 hours |
| **Downloads** | None | PostgreSQL, Node.js |
| **Accounts** | GitHub only | Database hosting, etc. |
| **Cost** | Free | $5-12/month |
| **Updates** | Daily automatic | Daily automatic |
| **Historical Data** | Limited | Full database |
| **Real-time Refresh** | Manual trigger | On-demand API |
| **Maintenance** | None | Server monitoring |

**Choose GitHub Actions if:**
- You want simplicity
- Cost is important ($0 vs $5-12/month)
- Don't need historical data tracking
- Happy with daily updates

**Choose Full Backend if:**
- Need historical data analysis
- Want on-demand refresh capability
- Building complex features
- Need more than 25-30 banks (rate limiting)

---

## Migration to Full Backend

If you later want the full backend:

1. The `backend/` folder is already in your repo
2. Follow `SETUP_GUIDE.md` for full setup
3. Both can coexist - GitHub Actions updates static file, backend provides API

---

## Next Steps

✅ **You're done!** Your site is live with automated updates.

**Optional enhancements:**
1. **Custom domain** - Add in GitHub Pages settings
2. **Analytics** - Add Google Analytics to `index.html`
3. **More banks** - Edit ticker list in script
4. **Custom metrics** - Add calculations in script
5. **Alerts** - Use GitHub Actions to send notifications

---

## Support

- **Workflow issues:** Check Actions tab for error logs
- **Data issues:** Review `public/data/banks.json` commits
- **Site issues:** Check browser console for errors
- **SEC API:** https://www.sec.gov/edgar/sec-api-documentation

---

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Check your site URL
https://[your-username].github.io/Bank-Analyzer/

# Manual data refresh
Actions → Update Bank Data → Run workflow

# View current data
Browse to: public/data/banks.json

# Check workflow runs
Actions tab → Select workflow

# Update bank list
Edit: scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs

# Deploy changes
git add .
git commit -m "your changes"
git push
```

**That's it! Enjoy your zero-maintenance bank screener! 🚀**

Commit message:

Replace Alpha Vantage with Marketstack for stock price data
Switch from Alpha Vantage to Marketstack API for fetching stock prices.
Marketstack provides prior close (EOD) prices with commercial use allowed
on their Professional plan ($49.99/mo).

Changes:
- Update getCurrentPrice() to use Marketstack EOD endpoint
- Replace ALPHA_VANTAGE_API_KEY with MARKETSTACK_API_KEY
- Update GitHub Actions workflow with new secret name
- Update documentation with Marketstack setup instructions
- Reduce price fetch delay from 13s to 500ms (Marketstack has no strict rate limit)

Note: Each symbol counts as 1 API request toward monthly quota.
Free tier: 100 req/mo, Basic: 10K req/mo, Professional: 100K req/mo

GITHUB_PAGES_SETUP.md, after:

# GitHub Pages Setup Guide

**Zero downloads. Zero accounts (beyond GitHub). Completely free.**

This is the simplified deployment using GitHub Actions + GitHub Pages. No backend server, no database, no local setup required!

---

## How It Works

```
GitHub Actions              Static JSON File           GitHub Pages
(Runs Daily at 2 AM)  →    (public/data/banks.json)  →  (Your Site)
     ↓                             ↓                         ↓
Fetches SEC data          Commits to repo           Serves to users
Calculates metrics        Auto-deploys              Real-time screener
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Completely free (GitHub Actions + Pages)
- ✅ No apps to download
- ✅ No accounts to create (you already have GitHub)
- ✅ Automated daily updates at 2 AM UTC
- ✅ No server maintenance
- ✅ Instant deployment on push

---

## Quick Setup (5 Minutes)

### Step 1: Enable GitHub Pages (1 minute)

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** → **Pages** (left sidebar)
3. Under "Build and deployment":
   - **Source:** GitHub Actions
   - (That's it! No branch selection needed)

### Step 2: Set Repository Secrets (2 minutes)

GitHub Actions needs API credentials for SEC and stock price data:

#### Secret 1: SEC User-Agent

1. Go to **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions**
2. Click **New repository secret**
3. Name: `EDGAR_USER_AGENT`
4. Value: `YourCompany contact@youremail.com` (use real info!)
5. Click **Add secret**

**Example:**
```
Acme Investments info@acme.com
```

#### Secret 2: Marketstack API Key (for stock prices)

1. Get an API key from [Marketstack](https://marketstack.com/signup/free)
2. Click **New repository secret**
3. Name: `MARKETSTACK_API_KEY`
4. Value: Your API key (e.g., `abc123xyz789`)
5. Click **Add secret**

**Note:** The free tier allows 100 API requests/month (testing only). For production use, the Basic plan ($9.99/mo) provides 10,000 requests/month. For commercial use, the Professional plan ($49.99/mo) provides 100,000 requests/month with explicit commercial licensing.

### Step 3: Trigger Initial Data Load (1 minute)

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click **Update Bank Data from SEC EDGAR** workflow
3. Click **Run workflow** → **Run workflow** button
4. Wait 5-10 minutes for completion
5. Check the **Summary** to see banks processed

### Step 4: Deploy to GitHub Pages (2 minutes)

1. In your repo root, create `.github/workflows/deploy.yml`:

```yaml
name: Deploy to GitHub Pages

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  workflow_dispatch:

permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: 'npm'
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm run build
      - uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3
        with:
          path: ./dist

  deploy:
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: github-pages
      url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
    steps:
      - uses: actions/deploy-pages@v4
        id: deployment
```

2. Commit and push:
```bash
git add .github/workflows/deploy.yml
git commit -m "Add GitHub Pages deployment"
git push
```

3. Site deploys automatically! Visit:
   ```
   https://[your-username].github.io/Bank-Analyzer/
   ```

---

## That's It! 🎉

Your bank screener is now live with automated daily SEC data updates.

---

## What Happens Automatically

### Daily at 2 AM UTC:
1. GitHub Actions runs `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs`
2. Fetches latest SEC EDGAR data for all banks
3. Calculates Graham Number, ROE, ROTA, etc.
4. Saves to `public/data/banks.json`
5. Commits changes to repo
6. GitHub Pages auto-deploys updated site

### On Every Push to Main:
1. Builds your frontend
2. Deploys to GitHub Pages
3. Live within 1-2 minutes

---

## Managing Your Bank List

Edit the tickers in `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs`:

```javascript
bankTickers: [
  'JPM', 'BAC', 'WFC',  // Add your tickers here
]
```

Push changes and next workflow run will update data.

---

## Manual Data Refresh

Anytime you want to refresh data manually:

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click **Update Bank Data from SEC EDGAR**
3. Click **Run workflow**
4. Wait 5-10 minutes

---

## Monitoring

### Check Workflow Status:
- Go to **Actions** tab
- See latest runs and their status
- Click any run to see detailed logs

### View Current Data:
- Check `public/data/banks.json` in your repo
- See commit history for update times
- Each commit shows date/time of update

---

## Customization

### Change Update Schedule

Edit `.github/workflows/fetch-data.yml`:

```yaml
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 2 * * *'  # Daily at 2 AM UTC
    # Change to:
    # - cron: '0 */6 * * *'  # Every 6 hours
    # - cron: '0 0 * * 1'    # Weekly on Mondays
```

### Add More Metrics

Edit `scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs` in the `calculateMetrics` function to add custom calculations.

### Change Data Source

The script fetches from:
- **SEC EDGAR API** - Financial metrics (free, no API key required)
- **Marketstack** - Stock prices / prior close (requires API key)

**Important:** Marketstack offers commercial use on their Professional plan ($49.99/mo) and above. The free tier (100 requests/month) is for testing only. See [Marketstack pricing](https://marketstack.com/pricing) for details.

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Workflow failed with 403 error"

**Problem:** SEC rejected request due to missing/invalid User-Agent

**Solution:**
1. Go to **Settings** → **Secrets** → **Actions**
2. Check `EDGAR_USER_AGENT` secret
3. Must be: `"CompanyName email@example.com"`
4. Update and rerun workflow

### "Stock prices showing null"

**Problem:** Marketstack API key missing or request limit exceeded

**Solution:**
1. Ensure `MARKETSTACK_API_KEY` secret is set in repository settings
2. Free tier limit: 100 requests/month (each symbol = 1 request)
3. For more banks, upgrade to Basic ($9.99/mo, 10K req) or Professional ($49.99/mo, 100K req)
4. Check [Marketstack dashboard](https://marketstack.com/dashboard) for usage stats

### "No data appearing on site"

**Problem:** Data file not yet generated

**Solution:**
1. Check **Actions** tab for failed runs
2. Manually trigger workflow
3. Wait for completion (5-10 minutes)
4. Refresh your GitHub Pages site

### "Some banks showing null values"

**Problem:** Bank doesn't have recent SEC filings or uses different XBRL tags

**Solution:** This is normal. Not all banks report consistently. The workflow continues with banks that have data.

### "GitHub Pages site not updating"

**Problem:** Deployment workflow not running

**Solution:**
1. Check **Actions** tab for deploy workflow
2. Ensure `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` exists
3. Push a commit to trigger rebuild

---

## Cost Breakdown

| Service | Cost |
|---------|------|
| GitHub Actions | **Free** (2,000 minutes/month) |
| GitHub Pages | **Free** (100 GB bandwidth/month) |
| SEC EDGAR API | **Free** (no limits) |
| Marketstack | **Free** (100 req/mo), **$9.99/mo** (10K req), or **$49.99/mo** (100K req, commercial) |
| **Total** | **$0-9.99/month** (testing/personal) or **$49.99/mo** (commercial) |

**Usage:**
- Data refresh: ~5 minutes/day = 150 min/month (well under limit)
- Pages bandwidth: Typical usage < 1 GB/month
- Marketstack: Each bank ticker = 1 API request toward monthly quota

**Note for Commercial Use:** Commercial use requires Marketstack Professional plan ($49.99/mo) or higher. See [Marketstack pricing](https://marketstack.com/pricing) for details.

---

## Advanced: Adding Historical Data

The current setup stores only the latest data. To track history:

1. **Option A:** Commit data file daily (repo grows over time)
2. **Option B:** Add JSON file per date in `public/data/history/`
3. **Option C:** Use GitHub Gists for historical snapshots

See `backend/` folder if you need full database with historical tracking.

---

## Comparison: GitHub Actions vs Full Backend

| Feature | GitHub Actions (This Setup) | Full Backend |
|---------|---------------------------|--------------|
| **Setup Time** | 5 minutes | 1-2 hours |
| **Downloads** | None | PostgreSQL, Node.js |
| **Accounts** | GitHub only | Database hosting, etc. |
| **Cost** | Free | $5-12/month |
| **Updates** | Daily automatic | Daily automatic |
| **Historical Data** | Limited | Full database |
| **Real-time Refresh** | Manual trigger | On-demand API |
| **Maintenance** | None | Server monitoring |

**Choose GitHub Actions if:**
- You want simplicity
- Cost is important ($0 vs $5-12/month)
- Don't need historical data tracking
- Happy with daily updates

**Choose Full Backend if:**
- Need historical data analysis
- Want on-demand refresh capability
- Building complex features
- Need more than 25-30 banks (rate limiting)

---

## Migration to Full Backend

If you later want the full backend:

1. The `backend/` folder is already in your repo
2. Follow `SETUP_GUIDE.md` for full setup
3. Both can coexist - GitHub Actions updates static file, backend provides API

---

## Next Steps

✅ **You're done!** Your site is live with automated updates.

**Optional enhancements:**
1. **Custom domain** - Add in GitHub Pages settings
2. **Analytics** - Add Google Analytics to `index.html`
3. **More banks** - Edit ticker list in script
4. **Custom metrics** - Add calculations in script
5. **Alerts** - Use GitHub Actions to send notifications

---

## Support

- **Workflow issues:** Check Actions tab for error logs
- **Data issues:** Review `public/data/banks.json` commits
- **Site issues:** Check browser console for errors
- **SEC API:** https://www.sec.gov/edgar/sec-api-documentation

---

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Check your site URL
https://[your-username].github.io/Bank-Analyzer/

# Manual data refresh
Actions → Update Bank Data → Run workflow

# View current data
Browse to: public/data/banks.json

# Check workflow runs
Actions tab → Select workflow

# Update bank list
Edit: scripts/fetch-sec-data.cjs

# Deploy changes
git add .
git commit -m "your changes"
git push
```

**That's it! Enjoy your zero-maintenance bank screener! 🚀**
