docs/sec-data-mapping.md, before:

# SEC Financial Statement Data Sets - Concept Mapping

This document maps SEC EDGAR XBRL concepts to the calculated metrics used in BankSift.

## Data Source

BankSift uses the **SEC Financial Statement Data Sets** to fetch financial data.

### SEC Financial Statement Data Sets

**URL:** `https://www.sec.gov/data-research/sec-markets-data/financial-statement-data-sets`

**Script:** `scripts/fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs`

**Features:**
- Quarterly ZIP file releases with complete filing data
- Presentation linkbase (`pre.txt`) for "as reported on face" structure
- Numerical data (`num.txt`) with explicit `qtrs` period indicator
- Submission metadata (`sub.txt`) for filing details

---

## Output Files

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `public/data/banks.json` | Calculated metrics for all banks |
| `public/data/banks/{cik}.json` | Full raw data per bank (historical statements) |
| `public/data/sec-data-index.json` | Metadata and bank data index |

---

## XBRL Concepts Extracted

### Balance Sheet (Point-in-Time, qtrs=0)

| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `Assets` | USD | Total Assets, ROAA, ratios |
| `StockholdersEquity` | USD | Total Equity, ROE, Book Value |
| `StockholdersEquityIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest` | USD | Fallback for Equity |
| `Deposits` | USD | Deposits/Assets ratio |
| `DepositsDomestic` | USD | Fallback for Deposits |
| `Liabilities` | USD | Total Liabilities |
| `PreferredStockValue` | USD | Preferred stock (for common equity calc) |
| `CommonStockSharesOutstanding` | shares | Shares for per-share calculations |
| `CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue` | USD | Cash position |
| `CashAndDueFromBanks` | USD | Fallback for Cash |
| `LoansAndLeasesReceivableNetReportedAmount` | USD | Loans |
| `LoansAndLeasesReceivableNetOfDeferredIncome` | USD | Fallback for Loans |
| `FinancingReceivableExcludingAccruedInterestAfterAllowanceForCreditLoss` | USD | Fallback for Loans |

### Income Statement (TTM from quarterly filings, qtrs=1)

| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `NetIncomeLoss` | USD | Net Income, ROE, ROAA |
| `ProfitLoss` | USD | Fallback for Net Income |
| `NetIncomeLossAvailableToCommonStockholdersBasic` | USD | Net Income to Common |
| `PreferredStockDividendsAndOtherAdjustments` | USD | For NI to Common derivation |
| `EarningsPerShareBasic` | USD/shares | EPS, Graham Number |
| `EarningsPerShareDiluted` | USD/shares | Fallback for EPS |
| `InterestIncomeExpenseNet` | USD | Net Interest Income |
| `NetInterestIncome` | USD | Fallback for NII |
| `InterestIncome` | USD | Interest Income |
| `InterestAndDividendIncomeOperating` | USD | Fallback |
| `InterestExpense` | USD | Interest Expense |
| `NoninterestIncome` | USD | Efficiency Ratio |
| `NoninterestExpense` | USD | Efficiency Ratio |
| `OperatingExpenses` | USD | Fallback for NIE |
| `ProvisionForLoanLeaseAndOtherLosses` | USD | Provision |
| `ProvisionForCreditLosses` | USD | Fallback |
| `IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeIncomeTaxesExtraordinaryItemsNoncontrollingInterest` | USD | Pre-tax income |

### Dividend Concepts (TTM)

Only **common stock** dividend tags are used to avoid double counting with preferred dividends.

**Per-Share Tags (Prioritized):**
| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared` | USD/shares | TTM DPS (primary) |
| `CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid` | USD/shares | Fallback for DPS |

**Total Common Dividends (for DPS derivation when per-share unavailable):**
| XBRL Concept | Unit | Source |
|--------------|------|--------|
| `PaymentsOfDividendsCommonStock` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |
| `DividendsCommonStock` | USD | Equity Statement |
| `DividendsCommonStockCash` | USD | Equity Statement |
| `CommonStockDividendsPaid` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |
| `DividendsPaidOnCommonStock` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |
| `CashDividendsPaidToCommonStockholders` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |

**DPS Calculation Priority:**
1. Per-share tags from Income Statement (getTTMFromStatements)
2. Per-share tags from raw SEC data (getTTMValue)
3. Derived: Total common dividends ÷ shares outstanding

**Statement Processing:** The script processes Cash Flow (CF) and Equity (EQ) statements to extract dividend data, but these statements are not shown on detail pages (only BS and IS are displayed).

**Note:** Some banks report dividend data only in notes or supplementary schedules rather than on the face of the primary financial statements. The SEC Financial Statement Data Sets only capture data from primary statements as rendered, so banks that report dividends differently may have missing DPS data.

---

## Financial Statement Data Sets Structure

The data is provided in quarterly ZIP files containing tab-separated files:

### sub.txt (Submissions)
```
adsh    cik     name    sic     form    filed   fy      fp
0000018255-24-000123    18255   JPMORGAN CHASE & CO    6022    10-Q    2024-11-01  2024    Q3
```

### num.txt (Numeric Data)
```
adsh    tag     version     ddate       qtrs    value       uom
0000018255-24-000123    Assets  us-gaap/2024    20240930    0   4200000000000   USD
0000018255-24-000123    NetIncomeLoss   us-gaap/2024    20240930    1   15000000000 USD
```

### pre.txt (Presentation Linkbase)
```
adsh    report  line    stmt    inpth   tag     version     plabel  negating
0000018255-24-000123    2   10  BS  0   Assets  us-gaap/2024    Total assets    0
```

### Key Fields

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `adsh` | Accession number (filing ID) |
| `ddate` | Period end date (YYYYMMDD) |
| `qtrs` | Period length: 0=point-in-time, 1=quarter, 4=annual |
| `stmt` | Statement type: BS, IS, CF, EQ, CI |
| `line` | Presentation line number |
| `negating` | 1 if value should be negated in presentation |
| `inpth` | 1 if parenthetical (excluded from primary statements) |

---

## TTM Calculation Logic

### Rule A: Quarterly-First
If 4+ quarterly periods exist, sum the most recent 4 quarters.

### Rule B: Annual Fallback
Only use annual value if fewer than 4 quarterly periods exist AND the annual period is more recent.

**NEVER mix annual and quarterly values.**

```javascript
// Rule A
if (quarterlyValues.length >= 4) {
  return sum(quarterlyValues.slice(0, 4));
}

// Rule B
if (annualValues.length > 0 && annualValues[0].date >= quarterlyValues[0]?.date) {
  return annualValues[0].value;
}
```

---

## FFIEC 5-Point Averaging

Return ratios (ROE, ROAA) use 5-point average balance sheet values per FFIEC UBPR methodology:

```javascript
// Use up to 5 periods for averaging
const periodsToUse = pointInTime.slice(0, 5);
const average = sum(periodsToUse.map(p => p.value)) / periodsToUse.length;
```

---

## Calculated Metrics

### Balance Sheet Derived

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| Book Value Per Share | `(Equity - PreferredStock) / Shares` |

### Profitability Ratios

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| ROE % | `NetIncome(TTM) / AvgEquity × 100` |
| ROAA % | `NetIncome(TTM) / AvgAssets × 100` |

### Bank-Specific Ratios

| Metric | Formula | Typical Range |
|--------|---------|---------------|
| Efficiency Ratio % | `NIE / (NII + NonintIncome) × 100` | 50-70% |
| Deposits/Assets % | `Deposits / Assets × 100` | 70-85% |
| Equity/Assets % | `Equity / Assets × 100` | 8-12% |
| Loans/Assets % | `Loans / Assets × 100` | 50-75% |
| Loans/Deposits % | `Loans / Deposits × 100` | 70-100% |

### Graham Value Metrics

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| Graham Number | `√(22.5 × EPS × BVPS)` |
| Graham MoS ($) | `GrahamNumber - Price` (requires price data) |
| Graham MoS (%) | `(GrahamNumber - Price) / Price × 100` (requires price data) |

### Price-Dependent Metrics (Placeholders)

The following metrics require external price data and are currently null:

| Metric | Formula | Status |
|--------|---------|--------|
| Price | External source | Placeholder |
| Market Cap | `Price × Shares` | Placeholder |
| P/E Ratio | `Price / EPS` | Placeholder |
| P/B Ratio | `Price / BVPS` | Placeholder |

---

## Data Quality Validation

Metrics are validated against outlier thresholds:

| Metric | Min | Max |
|--------|-----|-----|
| Efficiency Ratio | 20% | 150% |
| Deposits/Assets | 10% | 100% |
| Equity/Assets | 1% | 50% |
| ROE | -100% | 100% |
| ROAA | -10% | 10% |

Values outside these ranges are flagged and nulled out.

---

## Running the Script

### Process Cached Data

```bash
node scripts/fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs --verbose
```

This will:
1. Read quarterly ZIP files from `.sec-data-cache/`
2. Parse sub.txt, num.txt, pre.txt files
3. Build "as reported" financial statements
4. Calculate TTM metrics
5. Save to `banks.json` and individual bank files

---

## GitHub Actions Workflow

| Workflow | Schedule | Script |
|----------|----------|--------|
| `update-sec-data.yml` | Daily (3AM UTC) | `fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs` |

The workflow downloads quarterly ZIP files from the `sec-data` release and processes them.

---

## Historical Statement Structure

Each bank's data file includes "as reported on face" presentations:

```json
{
  "rawData": {
    "historicalBalanceSheet": {
      "quarterly": [
        {
          "period": "Q3 2024",
          "filingDate": "2024-11-01",
          "items": [
            { "tag": "Assets", "label": "Total assets", "line": 10, "value": 4200000000000 }
          ]
        }
      ],
      "annual": [...],
      "canonicalItems": {
        "quarterly": [...],
        "annual": [...]
      }
    },
    "historicalIncomeStatement": {...}
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Build historical CF/EQ statements for TTM DPS calculation
Major changes:
- Build historical Cash Flow (CF) and Equity (EQ) statements from SEC data
- Add getTTMFromEquity() and getTTMFromCashFlow() functions
- CF/EQ are used internally for dividend data, not shown on detail pages

DPS calculation priority:
1. Per-share tags from Equity Statement (sum 4 quarters)
2. Per-share tags from Income Statement
3. Per-share tags from raw SEC concepts
4. Derived: Total common dividends (from CF/EQ) / shares outstanding

Also:
- Remove inappropriate share fallback tags (CommonStockSharesIssued,
  WeightedAverageNumberOfSharesOutstandingBasic, etc.)
- Keep only CommonStockSharesOutstanding and EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding

docs/sec-data-mapping.md, after:

# SEC Financial Statement Data Sets - Concept Mapping

This document maps SEC EDGAR XBRL concepts to the calculated metrics used in BankSift.

## Data Source

BankSift uses the **SEC Financial Statement Data Sets** to fetch financial data.

### SEC Financial Statement Data Sets

**URL:** `https://www.sec.gov/data-research/sec-markets-data/financial-statement-data-sets`

**Script:** `scripts/fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs`

**Features:**
- Quarterly ZIP file releases with complete filing data
- Presentation linkbase (`pre.txt`) for "as reported on face" structure
- Numerical data (`num.txt`) with explicit `qtrs` period indicator
- Submission metadata (`sub.txt`) for filing details

---

## Output Files

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `public/data/banks.json` | Calculated metrics for all banks |
| `public/data/banks/{cik}.json` | Full raw data per bank (historical statements) |
| `public/data/sec-data-index.json` | Metadata and bank data index |

---

## XBRL Concepts Extracted

### Balance Sheet (Point-in-Time, qtrs=0)

| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `Assets` | USD | Total Assets, ROAA, ratios |
| `StockholdersEquity` | USD | Total Equity, ROE, Book Value |
| `StockholdersEquityIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterest` | USD | Fallback for Equity |
| `Deposits` | USD | Deposits/Assets ratio |
| `DepositsDomestic` | USD | Fallback for Deposits |
| `Liabilities` | USD | Total Liabilities |
| `PreferredStockValue` | USD | Preferred stock (for common equity calc) |
| `CommonStockSharesOutstanding` | shares | Shares for per-share calculations |
| `CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue` | USD | Cash position |
| `CashAndDueFromBanks` | USD | Fallback for Cash |
| `LoansAndLeasesReceivableNetReportedAmount` | USD | Loans |
| `LoansAndLeasesReceivableNetOfDeferredIncome` | USD | Fallback for Loans |
| `FinancingReceivableExcludingAccruedInterestAfterAllowanceForCreditLoss` | USD | Fallback for Loans |

### Income Statement (TTM from quarterly filings, qtrs=1)

| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `NetIncomeLoss` | USD | Net Income, ROE, ROAA |
| `ProfitLoss` | USD | Fallback for Net Income |
| `NetIncomeLossAvailableToCommonStockholdersBasic` | USD | Net Income to Common |
| `PreferredStockDividendsAndOtherAdjustments` | USD | For NI to Common derivation |
| `EarningsPerShareBasic` | USD/shares | EPS, Graham Number |
| `EarningsPerShareDiluted` | USD/shares | Fallback for EPS |
| `InterestIncomeExpenseNet` | USD | Net Interest Income |
| `NetInterestIncome` | USD | Fallback for NII |
| `InterestIncome` | USD | Interest Income |
| `InterestAndDividendIncomeOperating` | USD | Fallback |
| `InterestExpense` | USD | Interest Expense |
| `NoninterestIncome` | USD | Efficiency Ratio |
| `NoninterestExpense` | USD | Efficiency Ratio |
| `OperatingExpenses` | USD | Fallback for NIE |
| `ProvisionForLoanLeaseAndOtherLosses` | USD | Provision |
| `ProvisionForCreditLosses` | USD | Fallback |
| `IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeIncomeTaxesExtraordinaryItemsNoncontrollingInterest` | USD | Pre-tax income |

### Dividend Concepts (TTM)

Only **common stock** dividend tags are used to avoid double counting with preferred dividends.

**Per-Share Tags (Prioritized):**
| XBRL Concept | Unit | Used For |
|--------------|------|----------|
| `CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared` | USD/shares | TTM DPS (primary) |
| `CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid` | USD/shares | Fallback for DPS |

**Total Common Dividends (for DPS derivation when per-share unavailable):**
| XBRL Concept | Unit | Source |
|--------------|------|--------|
| `PaymentsOfDividendsCommonStock` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |
| `DividendsCommonStock` | USD | Equity Statement |
| `DividendsCommonStockCash` | USD | Equity Statement |
| `CashDividendsPaidToCommonStockholders` | USD | Cash Flow Statement |

**DPS Calculation Priority:**
1. Per-share tags from Equity Statement (getTTMFromEquity) - quarterly values summed for TTM
2. Per-share tags from Income Statement (getTTMFromStatements)
3. Per-share tags from raw SEC concepts (getTTMValue)
4. Derived: Total common dividends (from CF/EQ) ÷ shares outstanding

**Historical Statement Processing:**
- The script builds historical quarterly Cash Flow (CF) and Equity (EQ) statements from SEC data
- These are used internally for TTM dividend calculations
- CF and EQ statements are NOT displayed on detail pages (only BS and IS are shown)
- Quarterly dividend values are summed across 4 quarters to calculate TTM DPS

**Note:** Some banks report dividend data only in notes or supplementary schedules rather than on the face of the primary financial statements. The SEC Financial Statement Data Sets only capture data from primary statements as rendered, so banks that report dividends differently may have missing DPS data.

---

## Financial Statement Data Sets Structure

The data is provided in quarterly ZIP files containing tab-separated files:

### sub.txt (Submissions)
```
adsh    cik     name    sic     form    filed   fy      fp
0000018255-24-000123    18255   JPMORGAN CHASE & CO    6022    10-Q    2024-11-01  2024    Q3
```

### num.txt (Numeric Data)
```
adsh    tag     version     ddate       qtrs    value       uom
0000018255-24-000123    Assets  us-gaap/2024    20240930    0   4200000000000   USD
0000018255-24-000123    NetIncomeLoss   us-gaap/2024    20240930    1   15000000000 USD
```

### pre.txt (Presentation Linkbase)
```
adsh    report  line    stmt    inpth   tag     version     plabel  negating
0000018255-24-000123    2   10  BS  0   Assets  us-gaap/2024    Total assets    0
```

### Key Fields

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `adsh` | Accession number (filing ID) |
| `ddate` | Period end date (YYYYMMDD) |
| `qtrs` | Period length: 0=point-in-time, 1=quarter, 4=annual |
| `stmt` | Statement type: BS, IS, CF, EQ, CI |
| `line` | Presentation line number |
| `negating` | 1 if value should be negated in presentation |
| `inpth` | 1 if parenthetical (excluded from primary statements) |

---

## TTM Calculation Logic

### Rule A: Quarterly-First
If 4+ quarterly periods exist, sum the most recent 4 quarters.

### Rule B: Annual Fallback
Only use annual value if fewer than 4 quarterly periods exist AND the annual period is more recent.

**NEVER mix annual and quarterly values.**

```javascript
// Rule A
if (quarterlyValues.length >= 4) {
  return sum(quarterlyValues.slice(0, 4));
}

// Rule B
if (annualValues.length > 0 && annualValues[0].date >= quarterlyValues[0]?.date) {
  return annualValues[0].value;
}
```

---

## FFIEC 5-Point Averaging

Return ratios (ROE, ROAA) use 5-point average balance sheet values per FFIEC UBPR methodology:

```javascript
// Use up to 5 periods for averaging
const periodsToUse = pointInTime.slice(0, 5);
const average = sum(periodsToUse.map(p => p.value)) / periodsToUse.length;
```

---

## Calculated Metrics

### Balance Sheet Derived

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| Book Value Per Share | `(Equity - PreferredStock) / Shares` |

### Profitability Ratios

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| ROE % | `NetIncome(TTM) / AvgEquity × 100` |
| ROAA % | `NetIncome(TTM) / AvgAssets × 100` |

### Bank-Specific Ratios

| Metric | Formula | Typical Range |
|--------|---------|---------------|
| Efficiency Ratio % | `NIE / (NII + NonintIncome) × 100` | 50-70% |
| Deposits/Assets % | `Deposits / Assets × 100` | 70-85% |
| Equity/Assets % | `Equity / Assets × 100` | 8-12% |
| Loans/Assets % | `Loans / Assets × 100` | 50-75% |
| Loans/Deposits % | `Loans / Deposits × 100` | 70-100% |

### Graham Value Metrics

| Metric | Formula |
|--------|---------|
| Graham Number | `√(22.5 × EPS × BVPS)` |
| Graham MoS ($) | `GrahamNumber - Price` (requires price data) |
| Graham MoS (%) | `(GrahamNumber - Price) / Price × 100` (requires price data) |

### Price-Dependent Metrics (Placeholders)

The following metrics require external price data and are currently null:

| Metric | Formula | Status |
|--------|---------|--------|
| Price | External source | Placeholder |
| Market Cap | `Price × Shares` | Placeholder |
| P/E Ratio | `Price / EPS` | Placeholder |
| P/B Ratio | `Price / BVPS` | Placeholder |

---

## Data Quality Validation

Metrics are validated against outlier thresholds:

| Metric | Min | Max |
|--------|-----|-----|
| Efficiency Ratio | 20% | 150% |
| Deposits/Assets | 10% | 100% |
| Equity/Assets | 1% | 50% |
| ROE | -100% | 100% |
| ROAA | -10% | 10% |

Values outside these ranges are flagged and nulled out.

---

## Running the Script

### Process Cached Data

```bash
node scripts/fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs --verbose
```

This will:
1. Read quarterly ZIP files from `.sec-data-cache/`
2. Parse sub.txt, num.txt, pre.txt files
3. Build "as reported" financial statements
4. Calculate TTM metrics
5. Save to `banks.json` and individual bank files

---

## GitHub Actions Workflow

| Workflow | Schedule | Script |
|----------|----------|--------|
| `update-sec-data.yml` | Daily (3AM UTC) | `fetch-sec-fs-datasets.cjs` |

The workflow downloads quarterly ZIP files from the `sec-data` release and processes them.

---

## Historical Statement Structure

Each bank's data file includes "as reported on face" presentations:

```json
{
  "rawData": {
    "historicalBalanceSheet": {
      "quarterly": [
        {
          "period": "Q3 2024",
          "filingDate": "2024-11-01",
          "items": [
            { "tag": "Assets", "label": "Total assets", "line": 10, "value": 4200000000000 }
          ]
        }
      ],
      "annual": [...],
      "canonicalItems": {
        "quarterly": [...],
        "annual": [...]
      }
    },
    "historicalIncomeStatement": {...}
  }
}
```
